there's this popular program called
stranger things on TV and as a fan and
as a resist I've come up with a theory
and just forewarning there's gonna be
some spoilers
[Music]
in stranger things one of the characters
will gets trapped in this sort of
parallel universe called the upside down
and when he's trapped there his mom is
you know really worried about him but
she figures out that he's not missing
and that actually she can communicate
with him when he's in this parallel
universe and she does it by stringing up
some Christmas lights on the wall and
under each light bulb she writes a
letter and so from this parallel
universe the kid manages to light a
light bulb above a letter and spell out
a message to his mom yeah basically and
so I was thinking as a physicist how is
this even possible how does one
communicate from a whole other universe
to our universe in 1983 and so I've come
up with this theory this physics fan
theory and I think that this is possible
if this parallel universe called the
upside down is quantumly entangled
without universe I guess we got to
understand quantum entanglement first
first of all you've got to get rid of
everything that you know about the
classical world so in the classical
world
this is a red ball and it will always be
a red ball similarly this is a blue ball
and this will always be a blue ball and
if I sort of shuffled them around and
hold one in either hand when I say to
you you know which one is the red ball
and which one is the blue ball we know
that one of them is definitely red and
one of them is definitely blue and so
it's only when I open my hand and say
okay that was the blue ball and there
was the red ball that we knew all along
that this was blue and this was red but
one of them is always blue and one of
them is always red if this was the
quantum world and you couldn't tell
which one was red or which was blue they
would both be red and blue at the same
time so this is like the Schrodinger's
cat example the cat is both dead and
alive at the same time yes so there's
some sort of weird linear superposition
of red and blue in the quantum world and
it's only when we again we open the hand
and we see that this one is blue that we
know this one it's red but before that
they were both so if we have two
quantumly and tangle
particles instead in this weird quantum
mechanical world these can have sort of
any properties so what I was doing there
was this color was an analogy for
spittin basically or some property of
the particle so spin up and spin down
and that is a very fundamental property
of particles and so if we have these
quantumly entangled particles they don't
have any spin yet they do have spin it's
just that you can't describe one without
describing the other okay so they're in
this weird superposition state where
they can be both spin up and spin down
but the thing about quantumly entangled
particles is that as soon as you measure
them and one becomes spin up the other
one immediately becomes spin down so
whatever one of them does the other one
has to do the exact opposite and that's
what quantum entanglement is poor will
trapped in this parallel universe if
this entire universe was quantumly
entangled with our universe and anything
that will does in the parallel universe
has to be reflected in our universe as
well the particles have to do the exact
opposite so say will could take the
light bulb in the parallel universe of
the upside down and put a battery to it
and force the electrons in that light
bulb to move around a circuit he would
have given the momentum in a direction
and therefore the particles in our
universe would have to do the exact
opposite does that mean they would also
have to have momentum but in the
opposite direction and therefore also
move around a circuit and therefore
light up a light bulb so if he lit up a
light bulb in his universe the light
bulb would also light up in our universe
himself wouldn't that when he moves the
battery wouldn't the no this is where
this sort of theory is a little bit like
we're gonna have to think about this
I mean I'm also assuming that you know
these light bulbs are in parallel you
know they're not in series in their in
their circuit they're in parallel I mean
this is 1983 they could be in series I
don't know this is the kind of thing
that you have to achieve all the way you
go through this theory the electrons in
his he'll be able to manipulate
electrons in the other exactly through
quantum entanglement that's my theory
would you like to hear how this theory
is absolutely rubbish so there are many
problems but so as a scientist I had to
think through these problems and go
through them the first question I had
was easy even possible to make a quantum
Leontine board universe okay so that
just seems ridiculous in my head turned
out not so ridiculous so I actually
found a paper
quantum entanglement in the multiverse
and this is you know a theoretical paper
but they're actually talking about it as
if we could measure whether this has
actually happened in our own universe so
what they're saying is if our universe
is one of many and the multiverse theory
holds that there are many many universes
then after the Big Bang ten to the minus
thirty-six seconds after the Big Bang to
be precise there was this period of time
called inflation where the universe
rapidly inflated in the space of sort of
from ten to the minus thirty-six to sort
of like ten to the minus thirty-three
seconds so a very very short space of
time inflated very rapidly and that has
like loads of consequences on sort of
how the universe is today because any
sort of teeny tiny fluctuations and the
particles that were created just after
the Big Bang were sort of locked in so
density fluctuations anything like that
will then spread out over these huge
distances and that meant that then some
areas of the universe more dense than
the others and that's how you ended up
getting galaxies forming their eccentric
cetera so they're saying if you have
inflation in the multiverse and you're
creating sort of child universes from
say our parent universe so lots of
multiverses are sort of springing off
and you have inflation then the same
properties are going to be imprinted in
one universe as in the child universe as
well like in identical twins so that's
what inflation would do it would imprint
both those things and if you had two
particles that work in these quantum the
entanglement state in the beginning then
they will be quantum entangled in these
two separate universes and the really
cool thing about this paper is that they
suggest that actually if this was true
in our universe you'd actually be able
to test whether that was true because
these kind of quantum entanglement
fluctuations that would be imprinted in
inflation you'd still be able to see in
what's called the Cosmic Microwave
Background which is this microwave
signal which is a remnant of the
bang in the very early stages of the
universe where light could first escape
from the early stage in the universe so
I think that's really exciting and the
fact that my crazy fan theory could
actually you know in our own universe
could exist I was like that was that was
one point to me that's one point there
is another problem and it's something
called quantum decoherence if you have
two quantum entangled particles and you
want to send a message between the two
of them say you're doing it for like
encryption or something and you move one
particle say you know 300 miles away and
measure one thing to have a certain span
of momentum and therefore the other one
has to do the exact opposite this is
what Einstein was really concerned about
you were there for sending a message
faster than the speed of light because
as soon as this one is measured this one
automatically changes and so that is
sort of this spooky action at a distance
and we know that things can't travel
faster than the speed of light people
have got around that now by saying well
I had to physically move this 300 miles
away first to send that message and I
couldn't have made that travel faster
than the speed of light therefore the
message itself didn't travel faster than
the speed of light because if I move
that you know very very close to the
speed of light say 99 percent of the
speed of light over here and then I
transfer that message transfer a message
back then that has trouble fast in the
speed of light but that's not possible
so as soon as I measure this one spin up
and this one it's been down that is an
irreversible process and the reason for
that is you've had to put energy into
this system
okay so you've had to say okay this one
has to be sped up this one has to be
spin down and what you've done is you've
put energy into the universe this is
somehow interacted with the environment
that it's in and with the universe and
you've increased the entropy of the
universe so for those of you who are
paying attention in school that should
raise a little red flag the second law
of thermodynamics says that you cannot
decrease the entropy of the universe so
we've increased the entropy by doing
that measurement and measuring to say
that yes this one has been up and this
one has been down and so you cannot
reverse that process because reversing
it
you would have to decrease the entropy
of the universe to do that so any
interaction with your environment breaks
quantum entanglement so what does that
mean in terms of my crazy fan theory as
soon as will has moved the electrons and
set up a circuit in one light bulb he
couldn't do it again in that same light
bulb so when his mum has strung up the
lights with a single letter under every
single light he won't be able to use the
same letter twice so we have to get very
creative with his lettering and in the
show he writes the words right here so
he uses e twice and therefore I don't
think my theory holds because he
wouldn't be able to use eat Weiss under
our understanding of quantum
entanglement and quantum decoherence he
always sees an H twice as me right here
yeah okay okay I'll do that again
so I could influence his thoughts for
example how would I influence his
thoughts well I'd have to change the
biochemistry I was a biochemistry about
it's about electrons so somehow my
electrons would have to couple they'd
have to become strongly quantum
mechanically entangled with brady's
electrons